---
title: "Getting Started with Flask"
date: 2024-01-17T07:41:05+01:00
type: "post"
draft: false 
description: "Simply Create Your First Flask Program"
showTableOfContents: true
tags: ["Flask"]
---

Flask is a lightweight Python web framework that provides useful tools and features for creating web applications in the Python Language. It gives developers flexibility and is an accessible framework for new developers because you can build a web application quickly using only a single Python file.

In this tutorial, you’ll build a small web application that renders HTML text on the browser. 

## Step 1 - Installing Flask

First, activate your programming environment if you haven’t already:
```bash
source env/bin/activate
```
Once you have activated your programming environment, install Flask using the `pip install` command:
```bash
pip install flask
```
## Step 2 - Creating a Simple Application

Now that you have your programming environment set up, you’ll start using Flask. In this step, you’ll make a small Flask web application inside a Python file, in which you’ll write HTML code to display on the browser.

In your `flask_app` directory, open a file named `app.py` for editing, use nano or your favorite text editor and write the following code:
> app.py
```python
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)


@app.route('/')
def hello():
    return '<h1>Hello, World!</h1>'

```
## Step 3 - Start the Application

To run the application, use the `flask` command or `python -m flask`. You need to tell the Flask where your application is with the `--app` option.
```bash
flask --app hello run
```
Now head over to http://127.0.0.1:5000/, and you should see your hello world greeting.

## Externally Visible Server

If you run the server you will notice that the server is only accessible from your own computer, not from any other in the network. This is the default because in debugging mode a user of the application can execute arbitrary Python code on your computer.

If you have the debugger disabled or trust the users on your network, you can make the server publicly available simply by adding `--host=0.0.0.0` to the command line:
```bash
flask run --host=0.0.0.0
```
This tells your operating system to listen on all public IPs.

## Debug Mode

The `flask run` command can do more than just start the development server. By enabling debug mode, the server will automatically reload if code changes, and will show an interactive debugger in the browser if an error occurs during a request.
```bash
flask --app hello run --debug